❯ /mcp 
  ⎿  MCP dialog dismissed

❯ /model                                                                        
  ⎿  Set model to Opus 4.8 (1M context) and saved as your default for new
     sessions

❯ /grill-me use @idea.md and @gemini-idea.md to refine a comprehensive          
execution plan combining these two ideas together to cumulate in a very good    
execution plan                                                                  
  ⎿  Read idea.md (18 lines)
  ⎿  Read gemini-idea.md (101 lines)

⏺ I'll explore the repo state first so I'm grilling against reality, not
  assumptions.

⏺ Bash(ls -la && echo "---GIT LOG---" && git log --oneline -20 2>/dev/null &&
      echo "---ALL FILES---" && git ls-files | head -100 && echo "---FIND---" &&
      find . -type f…)
  ⎿  Error: Exit code 128
     total 32
     drwxr-xr-x   5 matthewmorris  staff   160 Jul  1 19:40 .
     drwxr-xr-x@ 18 matthewmorris  staff   576 Jul  1 19:37 ..
     drwxr-xr-x  10 matthewmorris  staff   320 Jul  1 19:37 .git
     -rw-r--r--   1 matthewmorris  staff  9675 Jul  1 19:39 gemini-idea.md
     -rw-r--r--   1 matthewmorris  staff  3263 Jul  1 20:00 idea.md
     ---GIT LOG---

⏺ Repo's greenfield — just the two idea docs, no code, no commits yet. Good,
  that means we're designing from scratch and nothing constrains us.

  Before I start drilling, here's the core tension I see between the two docs,
  which will shape the whole interview:

  - idea.md is a breadth vision: a slop-detecting linter, an efficiency
  analyzer, a context-reducing graph for agents, a tamagotchi, a VSCode plugin,
  a Claude skill. Lots of surface area.
  - gemini-idea.md is a depth spec for one specific artifact: slopd, a stateful
  middleware daemon that sits in the request path between the IDE (ACP) and the
  LLM (MCP), doing live context-compression and transaction-gating on every
  edit.

  These aren't the same product. Gemini's "proxy in the hot path" architecture
  is a much bigger, riskier commitment than idea.md's "analyze code and emit a
  report." They share exactly one organ: the H-DAG (the code graph). Everything
  else is a choice about how much to build around it.

  So my job is to grill you until we know which of these we're actually building
  first, and in what order. Let me start at the root.

  ---
  Question 1 — What is the first shippable unit that a real user runs and gets 
  value from?

  Everything downstream (parser choice, whether we need a daemon, whether we
  touch ACP/MCP at all, incremental graph updates) depends on this. I see three
  candidate "v1"s:

  - (A) A standalone CLI slop-linter. slop check ./mycode → parses Python,
  builds the H-DAG, runs deterministic rules (dead code, duplicate functions,
  over-commenting, complexity, circular imports), prints a ranked report + a
  health score. No LLM, no daemon, no IDE. This is
  scanaislop-but-with-a-real-graph.
  - (B) A context-compression library/MCP server for agents. The H-DAG exists to
  shrink what you feed an LLM — skeletal contracts instead of full bodies. v1
  is "give me the minimal context envelope to edit function X."
  - (C) The full slopd middleware daemon — ACP in, MCP out, live transaction
  gating. Gemini's spec as-is.

  My strong recommendation: (A). Reasons:
  1. It's the only one that delivers standalone value with zero dependency on an
  IDE, an agent, or a protocol integration. You can pip install/brew install it
  and it's useful day one.
  2. It forces you to build the H-DAG and the rule engine — which are the shared
  core that B and C both require anyway. You can't do B or C well without it.
  3. B and C have huge integration-surface risk (ACP and MCP are young, moving
  targets; sitting in the request hot-path is a latency and correctness
  minefield). Doing them first means you're debugging protocol plumbing before
  you've proven the graph detects slop usefully.
  4. The tamagotchi, VSCode plugin, and Claude skill are all thin presentation
  layers over (A)'s output — they become easy once (A) exists.

  In this framing, C is not "v1", it's "v3 or maybe never" — and B is a natural
  v2 because it reuses the exact same graph for a different consumer.

  Do you agree v1 = the standalone CLI linter, with the graph+rules as the
  reusable core? Or is the agent/middleware integration the thing you actually
  care about proving first, even at the cost of a slower start?

✻ Baked for 53s

❯ A) is not very creative. it already exists. i want to do something more       
  clever than just a. the h-dag/ast/rule based componentry already exists, but  
  its WHAT we are doing with it (instead of just bad code, its tuned for AI     
  usage, not just simple typecheck errors etc). i think B is also important to  
  execute on. i think ultimately C is ideal, except im not sure if ACP/MCP is   
  the best execution method for doing so, but thats what im leaning towards     

⏺ Fair pushback, and it changes the framing but not the sequencing — let me be
  precise about the distinction.

  I'm not saying "build a generic linter." I'm saying the graph + analysis 
  engine is the shared organ that A, B, and C all consume, so it gets built
  first regardless of which delivery vehicle we ship. What makes it not-boring-A
  is entirely in what the analysis computes. So we agree: the CLI is just the
  cheapest way to exercise the clever core while you build it — it's a test
  harness with a nice face, not the product thesis.

  And you just named the actual thesis, which I want to sharpen: the 
  differentiator is codebase-relative analysis. A normal linter judges a file in
  isolation against universal rules (types, unused vars, complexity). Those
  already exist; ruff/pylint own that. Your clever move is judging new code
  against the whole graph of what the codebase already is and already can do:
  - "You reimplemented parse_date — the codebase already has utils.dates.parse."
  (redundancy vs. existing capability)
  - "This function is named helper_process_data_v2 — nothing else here is named
  like that." (conformance to house naming)
  - "You wrote an ad-hoc HTTP retry loop — the codebase routes all HTTP through
  core.http.Client." (bypassing existing infrastructure)

  That's the thing scanaislop can't do, because slop is defined relative to the 
  surrounding codebase, not absolutely. Hold that as our north star.

  I'll come back to your ACP/MCP uncertainty — it's a real branch and I have
  opinions — but it's a delivery decision for C, and it depends on decisions we
  haven't made yet. Let me resolve the core first.

  ---
  Question 2 — What is the flagship detector, and how deep do we commit to it?

  The whole thesis lives or dies on one hard capability: "this new code 
  reimplements/bypasses something that already exists in the codebase."
  Everything else (naming, comments, complexity) is comparatively easy and
  partly commodity. So I want to pin the flagship first because it's both the
  most valuable and the most technically dangerous.

  Detecting "already exists" is a ladder of increasing difficulty:

  - Tier 1 — Exact duplication. Blake3 hash of normalized function bodies
  (gemini's body_hash). Catches copy-paste and near-identical reimplementations.
  Trivial, fully deterministic, zero false positives.
  - Tier 2 — Structural near-duplication. Normalize the AST (strip
  names/literals/comments), fingerprint via a winnowing/MinHash scheme, compare.
  Catches "same algorithm, renamed variables." Medium difficulty, 
  deterministic, tunable false-positive rate.
  - Tier 3 — Semantic redundancy. "Different code, same purpose" — e.g., two
  different date parsers. Needs either an effect/signature-shape match or
  embeddings over signatures+docstrings, with a similarity threshold. Hard, 
  fuzzy, false-positive-prone, and this is where an LLM or a vector index enters
  the picture.

  My recommendation: commit to Tier 1 + Tier 2 as the deterministic v1 flagship,
  and treat Tier 3 as an explicitly LLM-assisted "candidate" pass that only 
  suggests, never blocks. Reasoning: Tiers 1–2 are pure Rust, fast, and give you
  a real, demoable "you reimplemented this" result with near-zero false
  positives — that alone beats scanaislop. Tier 3 is where the magic ceiling is,
  but if you make it deterministic-blocking you'll drown users in false "this
  is redundant" noise and destroy trust. So Tier 3 is a soft, LLM-scored
  advisory that rides on top once the graph exists.

  The dependency this creates: Tier 2 requires you to define a canonical AST 
  normalization, and Tier 3 requires a decision about whether an 
  embedding/vector index is in-scope at all (that's a whole subsystem — model,
  storage, staleness).

  Do you agree the flagship is codebase-relative redundancy detection, capped at
  deterministic Tier 1+2 for v1 with Tier 3 as an LLM advisory? Or do you want
  Tier 3 semantic redundancy to be a first-class, must-have part of v1 — in
  which case we need to resolve the embedding-index subsystem right now before
  anything else?

✻ Worked for 51s

❯ tier 1 and 2 aren't that clever - any way we can use algebraic effects to     
  condense and fix to tier 3?                                                   

⏺ Good instinct, and this is the intellectual core of the whole project, so let
  me go deep — but also do you one honest favor and fix the terminology, because
  the right mental model changes what's buildable.

  "Algebraic effects" is the wrong name for what you want. Algebraic effects (à
  la Koka, OCaml 5, the free-monad crowd) are a control-flow mechanism —
  resumable exceptions, handlers, delimited continuations. That's not what helps
  you here. What you actually want is an effect system / effect inference:
  statically labeling each function with what side effects it has — Pure, Net,
  FS(read/write), DB, Env, Throws(T), Time/Random (nondeterminism),
  State(mutate), Concurrency. An effect signature is a type-like fingerprint of
  a function's observable behavior. Let me use "effect signatures" from here on.

  Now, your actual question: can effect signatures get us to Tier 3 semantic 
  redundancy without embeddings? Answer: partly — and the part it can't do 
  points at a better flagship.

  What effect signatures give you for redundancy (the honest version):
  The pair (type signature, effect signature) is a cheap, deterministic semantic
  bucket key. Two date parsers both fingerprint as roughly str → datetime, 
  {Throws}. So instead of embeddings, you bucket every function in the codebase 
  by (type-shape, effect-set) and only compare within a bucket. That collapses
  the O(n²) all-pairs problem into tiny equivalence classes and gives you
  deterministic Tier-3 candidates with zero ML.

  But be clear-eyed: it produces candidates, not confirmation. is_valid_email
  and is_palindrome are both str → bool, {Pure} — identical fingerprint,
  unrelated purpose. So effect signatures narrow the search brilliantly, but the
  final "yes these are truly redundant" still needs name/docstring similarity
  (fuzzy) or in-bucket structural compare (your Tier 2). Effect signatures don't
  replace Tier 3 — they make it tractable and mostly-deterministic. That's
  still a genuine, defensible advance over embeddings-blindly.

  But here's the thing — effect signatures unlock a better flagship than 
  redundancy. Your original idea.md list had "building things ad hoc instead of
  operating around the infrastructure that already exists." Effect signatures
  detect that directly and deterministically, and nobody else does it:

  - Infrastructure-bypass detection. The codebase channels all network I/O
  through core.http.Client — i.e., exactly one node is the sanctioned source of
  the Net effect, everyone else delegates to it. The AI writes a new function
  that acquires a raw Net effect (calls urllib directly). The effect graph shows
  a node minting an effect that the codebase's convention says should be
  delegated. Flag: "You introduced a raw Net effect; this codebase routes 
  network I/O through core.http.Client." That is the single most
  AI-slop-relevant check imaginable, and it's fully deterministic once you have
  the effect graph.
  - Layer/architecture violations. Gemini's hardcoded "Direct DB Imports in Web
  Router" rule generalizes to: "a DB effect appeared in a node in the 
  presentation layer." One general mechanism replaces a pile of ad-hoc rules.
  - Effect creep in diffs. A function that was {Pure} last commit now has {Net, 
  FS}. Huge red flag in AI-generated changes — the model quietly added I/O to a
  pure helper.
  - Purity lies. Docstring/name says "calculate"/"compute" (implies pure) but
  the effect set is {DB, Net}. Name-vs-effect mismatch = a deterministic,
  codebase-independent slop signal.

  So I'd reframe: the flagship is the effect graph, and its killer app is 
  "bypassing existing infrastructure / effect-layer violations," with 
  effect-bucketed redundancy as the second feature riding on the same 
  infrastructure. Redundancy is the demo everyone understands; infra-bypass is
  the thing that's uniquely yours and uniquely about AI slop.

  Now the cost, because you must go in eyes-open. Effect inference in Python is
  genuinely hard, and this is the project's central technical risk:
  1. It requires a call graph, which requires name resolution — nontrivial in
  Python (duck typing, getattr, monkeypatching, decorators, dynamic imports).
  You will never get this 100% precise.
  2. It requires a seed mapping of "primitive effect sources" — a curated table
  saying requests.*/socket.* → Net, open().write → FS(write), os.environ → Env,
  etc. This is a "typeshed-for-effects" you have to bootstrap and maintain.
  3. Effects propagate transitively up the call graph — a fixpoint computation
  over strongly-connected components.

  The mitigation that makes it feasible: be deliberately coarse and 
  conservative. A small effect lattice (~8–10 categories), a modest seed table
  for stdlib + top-20 libraries, and Unknown as the top element when you can't
  resolve a call. Coarse effects are still enough for every check above, and
  they sidestep the research-grade precision problem.

  ---
  Question 3 — Do you accept the effect graph as the flagship, and its 
  bootstrapping cost?

  Concretely, committing to this means v1's core is: build the call graph →
  infer coarse effect signatures via a curated seed table + transitive
  propagation → and the headline checks are infrastructure-bypass + effect-layer
  violations + purity-lies, with effect-bucketed redundancy as feature #2. The
  price is: you own a name-resolution pass and a hand-curated effect seed table,
  and you accept that inference is coarse/conservative (some Unknowns, not zero
  false negatives).

  My recommendation: yes, take this deal. It's the only version of the project
  that's genuinely novel, and coarse effects are tractable in a way precise ones
  aren't.

  Do you accept it? And a sub-decision that immediately follows if you do: for 
  the seed effect table, do we hand-curate it (accurate, laborious, ours) or try
  to derive effects from type stubs / library source automatically (ambitious, 
  noisy)? My rec: hand-curate a small table for v1 — it's a weekend of work for
  the top libraries and it's the part you can't afford to be noisy on.

✻ Churned for 1m 13s

※ recap: Goal: design an execution plan for a Rust "AI-slop" linter built on a codebase-relative effect graph. We're grilling through design decisions. Next: you decide whether to accept the effect graph as the flagship (with infra-bypass detection) and hand-curate its effect seed table. (disable recaps in /config)

❯ yes                                                                           

⏺ Locked. Let me capture where we are before drilling further, because the
  decisions are stacking up:

  - v1 delivery = CLI, but the product is codebase-relative analysis, not a
  generic linter.
  - Flagship = the effect graph → infra-bypass detection, effect-layer
  violations, purity-lies. Effect-bucketed redundancy is feature #2.
  - Effect inference = coarse, conservative, hand-curated seed table, Unknown as
  top.
  - Dedup = Tier 1+2 deterministic; Tier 3 = effect-bucket prefilter + fuzzy
  confirm (LLM advisory, never blocking).

  Now the dependency this forces. Everything above needs one thing that neither
  doc addresses: an effect graph requires a call graph, which requires name 
  resolution (what does client.get(...) actually refer to?). This is the single
  hardest prerequisite in the entire project, and — delicious irony — building
  it from scratch would be exactly the "reinvent instead of using existing
  infrastructure" sin the tool is meant to catch.

  ---
  Question 4 — How do we get name resolution / the call graph?

  Parser choice first, since it's the easy part and I'll just recommend it: the
  two serious options are Ruff's AST crates (ruff_python_parser +
  ruff_python_ast + its semantic model — fast, Astral-maintained, but
  workspace-internal APIs that churn) or tree-sitter-python (error-tolerant,
  incremental reparsing — which B and C's daemon will need, but a thin CST with
  far less semantic info). My rec: start on Ruff's parser for the richer AST and
  because you get a head-start on its semantic model; revisit tree-sitter only
  if/when the incremental daemon (C) actually materializes. Don't let C's
  hypothetical needs tax v1.

  The real decision is name resolution depth, and there are three honest paths:

  - (A) Build our own, repo-scoped, best-effort resolver in Rust. Resolve
  imports, module-level defs, and local scopes; resolve method calls only when
  the receiver type is obvious; everything else → Unknown. Coarse, matches our
  effect philosophy, pure Rust, no external deps. But it's still real work and
  will have blind spots (dynamic dispatch, re-exports).
  - (B) Lean on Ruff's semantic model / red-knot (now "ty"). Astral is building
  exactly this resolver in Rust. You get years of work for free — but it's
  early, its API is unstable, and you're coupled to their release cadence.
  - (C) Shell out to an existing Python type checker (pyright/jedi) to produce
  symbol resolution, ingest its output, build the graph in Rust on top. Maximum
  accuracy fastest — but it reintroduces a Python runtime dependency and IPC
  latency, which quietly kills the "self-contained Rust daemon" premise for C.

  My recommendation: (A), deliberately coarse, and lean on Ruff's semantic model
  where it already helps (a soft blend of A and B). Reasoning:
  1. It's philosophically consistent — coarse resolution feeds coarse effects;
  precision we can't use is wasted.
  2. It keeps the artifact pure-Rust and self-contained, which preserves the
  daemon dream for C without paying for it now.
  3. (C) is seductive but it makes your "fast Rust daemon" secretly depend on
  spawning pyright per analysis — a latency and packaging nightmare, and it
  undercuts the entire reason you chose Rust.
  4. The blind spots of (A) are acceptable precisely because everything
  downstream is advisory-or-conservative: an unresolved call becomes Unknown
  effect, which we handle gracefully rather than crashing.

  The catch you must accept with (A): unresolved names cap your recall. Some
  real infra-bypasses will be missed because we couldn't resolve the call.
  That's fine for a tool that advises — bad for one that blocks. Which is
  another reason the CLI (advisory) is the right v1 and the blocking
  transaction-gate (C) is later, when resolution has matured.

  Do you accept (A) coarse repo-scoped resolution in Rust, Ruff parser
  underneath? Or does the accuracy of (C)'s "borrow pyright" tempt you enough to
  accept a Python runtime dependency — which is the biggest fork in the road
  for whether C can ever be the clean daemon Gemini drew?

✻ Worked for 53s

❯ b/c. i am not opposed to other languages, but i just want to get to the       
  objective as effective as possible. also contributing to ruff is not bad to   
  improve their product.                                                        

⏺ Good — and that principle ("reach the objective as effectively as possible,
  reuse what exists") is exactly the project's own thesis applied to itself, so
  I'll hold you to it. But "B/C" conflates two very different operational bets,
  and I want to collapse them into one concrete decision rather than leave it
  fuzzy.

  The two are not interchangeable:
  - B (Ruff/ty semantic model) is native Rust, self-contained, but early — you'd
  likely have to contribute upstream to get the resolution completeness you
  need, on their timeline.
  - C (shell to a Python analyzer) is mature now, but foreign runtime — and note
  pyright is Node/TypeScript, jedi/mypy are Python, so "borrow the best
  resolver" means bolting a Node or Python runtime onto your Rust tool. That's
  real packaging weight.

  Here's the synthesis that honors "effective as possible" without marrying you
  to either:

  Put name resolution behind an adapter boundary, back it with SCIP today, 
  migrate to ty later. Concretely:
  1. Define one internal interface your effect engine consumes — "given a call 
  site, resolve it to a definition + its type." Your whole engine depends only
  on this, never on how it's satisfied.
  2. Back it initially with scip-python (Sourcegraph's indexer, built on
  pyright). It emits a precise, serialized cross-reference index (definitions +
  references, repo-wide) as protobuf. You ingest that index into your Rust graph
  — you get Microsoft-and-Sourcegraph-grade resolution for free, and you never
  touch pyright's internals or spawn it per-call. It's a batch artifact you
  read, not a live dependency in your hot path.
  3. When ty matures, write a second adapter and swap. Your effect engine
  doesn't change.

  Why this specifically: it's the maximal-reuse move (you inherit two mature
  projects' resolution work), it's accurate now so your effect graph is
  trustworthy in v1, and the adapter means the eventual clean-native-Rust daemon
  (C) is a swap, not a rewrite. Contributing to Ruff/ty stays on the table as
  the migration path, not a v1 blocker.

  The consequence you're accepting: v1's resolution runs as a batch pre-step
  (index the repo → ingest → analyze), not live-incremental. That's fine for a
  CLI. It means Gemini's live in-the-hot-path daemon (C) stays deferred until
  either ty is ready or you accept bundling a runtime — but that was already
  going to be true.

  Do you accept "resolution behind an adapter, SCIP-backed batch for v1,
  ty-native later"? Assuming yes, next branch:

  ---
  Question 5 — What is the graph, exactly? (And a correctness bug in Gemini's 
  spec.)

  Gemini calls it an H-DAG — Hierarchical Directed Acyclic Graph. It cannot be 
  acyclic, and this matters:
  - Call graphs have cycles (recursion, mutual recursion).
  - Import graphs have cycles — and Gemini's own spec wants to detect circular 
  imports with Tarjan's SCC. You can't run cycle-detection on a structure you've
  defined as acyclic. The "DAG" framing is just wrong for the call/import
  layers.

  So we need to decide the real shape. My recommendation: one graph, multiple 
  edge kinds, general directed (cyclic allowed), with node granularity at the 
  callable level.

  - Nodes: Module, Class, Function/Method — roughly Gemini's CodeEntity, which
  is a fine starting struct (keep signature, docstring, source_range, body_hash;
  add effect_signature; drop cyclomatic_complexity as a stored field — compute
  it on demand, it's cheap and it's not graph-structural).
  - Edge kinds (this is where the real modeling is): Contains
  (module→class→function — this layer is a tree/DAG, safe for hierarchy), Calls
  (function→function — cyclic), Imports (module→module — cyclic, this is where
  SCC runs), Inherits (class→class), and derived HasEffect
  (function→effect-source).
  - Acyclicity is a property we check on specific edge kinds, not a global 
  invariant — e.g., "the Imports subgraph should be a DAG; SCC finds where it
  isn't." That reframes Gemini's rule correctly: cycles aren't impossible,
  they're the finding.

  The open sub-decision: is the effect information a separate graph or edges on 
  the same graph? My rec: same graph, HasEffect edges to a small set of 
  effect-source nodes — so "what network I/O exists and who bypasses core.http"
  is a single graph query, not a join across two structures.

  Do you accept one cyclic multi-edge-kind graph with per-edge-kind acyclicity
  checks (not a global DAG invariant), callable-level nodes, effects as edges on
  the same graph? Or do you have a reason to keep the effect graph physically
  separate from the call/containment graph?

✻ Sautéed for 59s

❯ i agree that v1 the c works fine for then. i agree with your suggestion for   
  q5                                                                            

⏺ Both locked. Two branches remain that are more consequential than the rest,
  and they're linked, so let me take the more foundational one first.

  Everything we've designed — infra-bypass, effect-creep, redundancy —
  implicitly assumes a baseline: "the codebase already routes Net through
  core.http," "this function was pure last commit," "this capability already
  exists." None of those checks mean anything without deciding what the tool 
  treats as the established truth to judge against. This is also the single
  biggest adoption risk: point any slop-linter at a real, already-AI-slopped
  repo and it emits 4,000 findings and gets uninstalled by lunch.

  ---
  Question 6 — Is the primary operating mode whole-repo audit, or diff-relative 
  delta?

  The framing matters enormously because AI slop is inherently a delta
  phenomenon — you care about what the agent just introduced, not the
  accumulated sins of the whole legacy repo. Watch how every flagship check is
  naturally a delta:

  - Infra-bypass = "the change adds a new raw Net effect, when the established
  codebase channels Net through core.http."
  - Effect-creep = "this function gained {Net, FS} relative to its prior effect
  signature."
  - Redundancy = "the change adds a function whose effect-bucket already had a
  member."
  - Convention violation = "this name/shape deviates from the established
  population."

  All of these are "new code vs. established baseline." So:

  My recommendation: primary mode = diff-relative. The whole repo is the 
  baseline/model; the diff (or a specified target set) is what gets judged.
  Whole-repo audit still exists, but as a secondary mode that (a) produces a
  one-time "here's your slop debt" report and (b) establishes the baseline the
  diff mode judges against. Concretely: slop check on a PR/working-tree diff =
  the everyday path; slop audit on the whole repo = the occasional path +
  baseline-builder.

  This does three things at once:
  1. Solves adoption — existing slop is grandfathered into the baseline, you
  only get flagged for new slop. The tool is usable on day one on a real repo.
  2. Makes the checks correct — creep/redundancy/bypass are defined as deltas,
  so this isn't a UX preference, it's the natural semantics.
  3. Matches the real workflow — you run this right after Claude/Codex writes
  code, to catch what it just did.

  Now the mechanism that rides on this — how the baseline learns "sanctioned 
  channels" (needed for infra-bypass). My rec: dominant-pattern inference → 
  editable policy file. During audit, if ~most Net effects flow through one
  node, propose it as the sanctioned network channel and write it into a
  generated slop.toml. The user confirms/edits. Empty policy = infra-bypass
  checks stay silent (they only report candidates), so there's no cold-start
  false-positive storm on small or brand-new codebases. This gives you the
  baseline artifact every serious linter needs, without a config-writing burden.

  Do you accept diff-relative as primary, whole-repo audit as 
  baseline-builder/secondary, and dominant-pattern-inferred-but-user-editable 
  policy for sanctioned channels? Or do you want whole-repo audit to be the
  headline mode (which I'd argue makes the tool unadoptable on existing code and
  mis-defines half the checks)?

✻ Worked for 45s

❯ i agree                                                                       

⏺ Locked. Now the "fix" half of the product — because detecting slop is only
  half of what both docs promise. idea.md wants to "create and edit/fix code via
  this linter"; Gemini wants a transaction gate that loops corrections back to
  the LLM. This is the biggest remaining branch.

  ---
  Question 7 — Is slop its own coding agent, or a tool + gate for an existing 
  one?

  There's a fork here that determines whether this project stays sane. Three
  models:

  - (A) slop drives its own LLM loop. It finds issues, prompts a model with the
  finding + context, applies the fix, re-validates, loops. slop owns inference,
  prompting, retries, model config.
  - (B) slop is a passive reporter. Emits structured findings; a human or some
  other agent acts. slop never touches an LLM.
  - (C) slop is a tool surface + validation gate that an existing agent (Claude 
  Code, Codex) drives. slop exposes: deterministic auto-fixes it applies itself,
  structured findings with fix-guidance, MCP tools (get_context_envelope,
  query_graph, validate_change), and a pass/fail gate. The host agent runs the
  loop; slop is its deterministic conscience and context provider.

  My strong recommendation: (C), with a slice of (B)'s auto-fix built in.
  Reasoning — and it's the same reasoning that's driven every answer so far:

  1. Being its own agent (A) is reinventing Claude Code. Prompt orchestration,
  model selection, retry logic, streaming, cost management — that's a mature
  product you'd be rebuilding badly. That's the exact "ad-hoc instead of using
  existing infrastructure" sin the tool exists to catch. Don't.
  2. (C) is literally what idea.md called "the harness" — and it's what makes
  the context-compression play (v2/B) pay off: slop feeds the agent a minimal, 
  graph-derived context envelope + deterministic findings, so a cheaper model
  does a senior-engineer's job. That only works if slop is the tool layer under
  the agent, not a competing agent.
  3. It cleanly stages your roadmap: the MCP tool surface is Gemini's "MCP
  integration," and the validation gate is Gemini's transaction gate — but
  delivered as tools the agent opts into, not a proxy sitting in the hot path
  intercepting every message (which is the fragile, high-latency part of
  Gemini's design we've been deferring).

  Concretely, slop's "fix" responsibilities split three ways:
  - Deterministic self-fix (slop fix): only the safe, mechanical, reversible
  stuff — unused imports/params, comments that literally restate the next line,
  trivial dead code behind confirmation. Never anything requiring judgment.
  - Fix-guidance in findings: each finding carries a machine-readable
  recommendation ("delegate this Net effect to core.http.Client") — so whoever
  fixes it (human or agent) knows the intended resolution.
  - MCP gate + context tools: the agent calls validate_change(diff) and gets
  pass/fail + structured feedback to loop on. slop does not roll back git or
  manage the agent's turn — the agent owns its loop.

  So: slop is never its own agent. It's a deterministic auto-fixer + findings
  engine + MCP tool/gate that Claude Code or Codex drives. Gemini's "transaction
  gate" survives as an opt-in validation tool, not an inline proxy.

  Do you accept (C)+auto-fix, and explicitly rule out slop becoming its own
  inference-driving coding agent? Or is "power its own CLI coding engine" (from
  idea.md point 3) something you genuinely want to build rather than delegate to
  Claude Code/Codex?
✻ Crunched for 43s

❯ i would agree with the b/c combo. it drives the agentic component (maybe      
  expand into cli coding agent at some point? i just don't want to bake the     
  other nuanced features of coding agents into it, i just want to be the "model 
  surface" that the cli operates upon. a really dumb idea: in its application   
  you pass the directory and activate claude code, and it has a dupe of the     
  repo you actually want to edit except the dupe "directory" only serves the    
  data we want claude to see and it thinks its interacting in the real          
  directory except its not. this could also build in inherent sandboxing, but   
  the application can basically diff the changes claude creates in the repo and 
  put it in the real repo/ide                                                   

⏺ That's a genuinely clever idea, and there's a real kernel in it — but it
  bundles two things that have wildly different risk profiles, and I want to
  split them before you fall in love with the whole package.

  You're describing two separable benefits:
  1. Sandboxing + diff-back — Claude edits a copy, you review and apply the
  delta to the real repo.
  2. Transparent context-compression — the copy only shows Claude the data you 
  want it to see (skeletons/contracts for peripheral code), and Claude doesn't
  know it's a projection.

  Benefit #1 is great, low-risk, and mostly already solved. A git worktree (or a
  plain shadow copy) is exactly this: run the agent in an isolated working
  tree, diff it, apply the patch to the real tree. You get sandboxing for free,
  clean diff-back, and it composes with your validation gate (validate the
  worktree diff before applying). I'd absolutely take this — it's the right
  deployment wrapper for the agentic mode. Keep it.

  Benefit #2 — the lossy projection — is where I have to grill you hard, because
  it has a fundamental invertibility problem:

  - Compression and diff-back are in direct tension. To compress, the shadow
  file must differ from the real file (skeleton instead of body). To diff-back,
  the shadow must correspond to the real file. The more you compress, the harder
  the inverse map. If Claude edits a region you skeletonized, the edit is
  literally unmappable — you threw away the bytes it's editing against, and its
  line numbers don't match reality.
  - You can't predict what Claude will edit vs. merely read. You'd want full
  fidelity for edit-targets and skeletons for context — but Claude decides that
  dynamically, mid-turn. Serve a skeleton and it may edit into it; serve
  everything full and you've compressed nothing.
  - You'd be fighting Claude Code's own retrieval. It greps, reads partial
  files, builds its own model. Feed it skeletons and its grep "def 
  charge_customer" returns ... — it re-reads, gets confused, or works from a
  false picture. You'd be sabotaging the exact agent you're trying to empower.
  - The transparent-VFS delivery is nasty on macOS. Live FUSE is effectively
  dead on modern macOS (kext signing). A materialized shadow dir avoids that but
  reintroduces the invertibility problem above.

  So my recommendation splits your idea cleanly:

  ▎ Use the sandboxed worktree for #1 (sandboxing + diff-back), with 
  ▎ full-fidelity files. Deliver compression #2 through the cooperative 
  ▎ tool/context layer, NOT through lossy filesystem projection.

  Concretely: the agent runs in a real worktree (transparent, it's just a
  directory, no VFS). Compression is delivered by what slop seeds into the 
  agent's turn and by MCP tools the agent pulls from (get_context_envelope,
  query_subgraph) — because at the tool layer, skeletons are additive and 
  invertible: you're adding a compressed map, never subtracting bytes the agent
  needs to edit against. The agent's own retrieval keeps working; you're
  augmenting it, not lying to it.

  The one thing I don't want to lose from your idea is the goal underneath it:
  "be a transparent substrate that works with any agent, without baking 
  coding-agent features into slop." You can have that — the worktree is
  transparent (any agent, any CLI, just point it at a directory), and MCP is a
  one-line config for both Claude Code and Codex, not a fork of them. You stay
  the substrate; you just don't achieve compression by deceiving the agent about
  its own files.

  Question 8: Do you accept — sandbox via worktree (full-fidelity, transparent, 
  works with any agent) + compression via additive tool/context layer, and drop
  lossy FS-projection as the compression mechanism? Or is "the agent literally
  cannot see the bytes we hid" a property you consider essential (e.g., for hard
  context-cost guarantees or security), enough to take on the invertibility and
  VFS pain?

  And to your parenthetical — "expand into a full CLI coding agent someday": I'd
  park it explicitly as a non-goal for now but keep the door open, because the
  worktree+gate+envelope architecture is exactly the substrate you'd build a
  coding agent on top of later. You lose nothing by delegating to Claude Code
  today and revisiting once the substrate is proven.

✻ Baked for 1m 13s

❯ addressing the recommendation: i want you to think aobut how you can best     
  implement this idea further in other ways (maybe look at papers??) we could   
  also attach our own metadata or mini prompts to steer claude towards this??   
  if it works on a worktree, the problem is that it will actually pass entire   
  files into context which at scale with large codebases can be lossy. we can   
  easily build a deterministic remapper for grep, create a shim that requires   
  claude to execute via this module vs shell native and remaps into this        
  directory with the respective actual grep command (or whatever it may be). 8) 
  v1 it is acceptable, but look into it more                                    

⏺ You've actually improved the idea in a way that dissolves my biggest objection
  — let me engage seriously, and I'll pull in real prior art since you asked.
  First let me dispatch two focused research probes (they'll run while I
  reason), because "look at papers" and "does Claude Code even let us do the
  grep shim" are both empirically checkable rather than things I should assert
  from memory.

⏺ 2 agents finished (ctrl+o to expand)
   ├ Agent (Literature scan on repo context compression) · 16 tool uses · 32.3k tokens
   │ ⎿  Done
   └ claude-code-guide (Claude Code tool interception capabilities) · 10 tool uses · 75.6k tokens
     ⎿  Done

⏺ Both probes came back rich, and they substantially change the picture — in
  your favor on the mechanism, and with one important correction on what's
  actually novel.

  What the research says

  1. Your "grep shim" instinct is right — and for Claude Code it's natively 
  supported, no VFS needed. A PostToolUse hook can return updatedToolOutput —
  i.e., you can transparently rewrite what a Read/Grep/Bash grep call returns
  after it runs. That is the deterministic remapper you described, minus the
  FUSE/kext nightmare. PreToolUse can rewrite inputs or deny. (Caveat: MCP
  servers can only add tools, never shadow built-in Read/Grep; and injected
  context is a soft "system-reminder," not hard enforcement. So the split is:
  hooks for the transparent read-remap, MCP for additive tools, and an 
  agent-agnostic shim only when you leave Claude Code.)

  2. The invertibility problem is fully resolvable — compress the read path 
  only, zoned by graph distance. This is the clean rule that also matches the
  literature (Agentless's "hierarchical localize → repair," Gemini's
  BFS-from-target):
  - Discovery reads (Grep/Glob, peripheral files beyond radius D from the edit
  target) → PostToolUse serves skeletons (signature + docstring + effect 
  signature). This is where the token blow-up actually happens, and edits never
  anchor here.
  - The edit zone (target + close neighbors within radius D) → full fidelity,
  always. Edits only ever land here, so old_string anchors always match real
  bytes.
  - If the agent tries to Edit a skeletonized file, PreToolUse catches it
  (target not in the full zone) and rehydrates it first. Edits are never
  attempted against lossy views.

  3. The correction you need to hear: transparent compression is NOT your 
  novelty — Aider already ships it, and LongCodeZip/CodeCompressor already 
  publish AST-skeleton compression. Aider's repo map is almost exactly your v2
  (tree-sitter → symbol graph → personalized PageRank → token-budgeted
  skeletons). So don't sell "structural compression" as the innovation. Your 
  genuine white space, confirmed by the scan, is the effect system: "static
  effect inference as an LLM code-quality guardrail / context signal" is
  essentially unstudied. Plant your flag there — everything else (graph,
  skeletons, PageRank) you should borrow from Aider/RepoGraph rather than 
  reinvent (eating your own dogfood).

  The synthesis this unlocks

  Here's the insight the two probes create together: one effect graph powers 
  both prevention and detection.
  - Prevention (pre-hoc): when the agent reads context, inject — via the same
  hook — "this codebase routes Net through core.http.Client; don't use urllib 
  directly." The graph steers the agent away from slop before it's written.
  - Detection (post-hoc): the validation gate catches what slipped through.

  That's your parenthetical "attach metadata/mini-prompts to steer Claude" —
  realized precisely, through the supported additionalContext channel, fed by
  the graph.

  So the layering firms up (and projection is correctly parked)

  - v1 — CLI linter: graph + coarse effects + detection + deterministic auto-fix
  + report/health score. No agent, no hooks.
  - v2 — the harness: context envelope + MCP additive tools + PostToolUse
  read-remap (transparent skeletons, read-path/zoned) + additionalContext
  steering. This is where your projection idea lives — natively, invertibly.
  - v3 — the gate: validation gate + agent-driven fix loop in a worktree.

  ---
  Question 9 — How is the context envelope constructed and ranked?

  This is the heart of v2 and it dictates the graph's query API (and storage).
  Gemini says "BFS from target to depth D." Aider says "personalized PageRank,
  packed to a token budget." The research says Aider's approach wins on
  relevance (BFS alone floods you with reachable-but-irrelevant nodes). My
  recommendation unifies both and adds your differentiator:

  1. Seed = the edit target(s) T → full fidelity.
  2. Candidate set = graph neighborhood of T (callers, callees, type-referenced
  entities, siblings) out to depth D.
  3. Rank candidates by personalized PageRank seeded at T (Aider's proven method
  — solves "which 12 of 200 reachable nodes matter").
  4. Effect-aware boost (your novelty): sanctioned effect-channels relevant to
  T's task get boosted into the envelope, so the agent sees core.http and is
  steered to use it.
  5. Pack skeletons greedily under a token budget (--map-tokens style).

  This creates two concrete dependencies: the graph store must support
  personalized PageRank + fast neighborhood queries with edge weights (points at
  petgraph, or a custom CSR graph), and you need a tokenizer for the budget.

  Do you accept the unified PageRank-ranked, effect-boosted, budget-packed
  envelope (borrowing Aider's ranking wholesale rather than reinventing), with
  BFS only as the candidate-gathering step? Or do you want the simpler
  pure-BFS-depth envelope from Gemini for v2 and defer ranking?

✻ Churned for 4m 49s

❯ i guess even if it hasn't been done we can intercept the http header/request  
  since claude code terminal is accessed via a specific local ip adress         

⏺ Careful here — this is the third interception layer you've proposed (VFS →
  tool-shim → now HTTP), and I want to map the full space and correct a factual
  premise, because one of these is a trap.

  First, the premise: Claude Code's model traffic doesn't go to a local IP — it
  goes to api.anthropic.com over TLS. The only thing on a local port is the
  IDE-extension ↔ CLI channel (a local socket), which carries editor events, not
  the prompt/context payload. So "intercept the local IP" would catch the wrong
  traffic. To intercept the actual context going to the model you'd either (a)
  cert-MITM the TLS (cert-trust hell, brittle, ToS-risky), or (b) — the clean
  way — point Claude Code at a local proxy via ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL (a supported
  env var). No packet sniffing, no cert. That's what LLM proxies (LiteLLM,
  Helicone) already do.

  But here's why the proxy is the wrong layer for compression specifically — and
  this is the decisive point:

  - It's too late. By the time a request hits the wire, Claude Code's Read tool
  has already returned the full file bodies into the conversation history. The
  proxy can strip them on the way out, but now Claude Code's local state (thinks
  it saw full) and the model's view (saw skeleton) diverge — the model answers
  about code Claude Code believes it sent, and they desync.
  - It nukes the KV cache. Rewriting the request prefix busts Anthropic's prompt
  cache — the exact thing Gemini's doc said to protect. The PostToolUse hook
  rewrites before the content enters history, so the cache stays intact and the
  two views never diverge.

  So for read-path compression, the hook wins decisively over the proxy. Don't
  cert-MITM, don't rewrite payloads for compression.

  Where the proxy is genuinely the right tool — and worth keeping — is as the
  agent-agnostic seam for things that belong at the request boundary, not the
  file boundary:
  - Injecting the effect-graph steering block as system context uniformly across
  any agent (Codex, Cursor, anything with a configurable base URL) — this is
  Gemini's "middleware," done at the supported base-URL layer.
  - Observability — what did the agent actually send the model? (invaluable for
  tuning your envelope).
  - A provider-agnostic gate hook later.

  So the clean decision matrix — three layers, three jobs:

  ┌─────────────┬──────────────────────┬──────────────────┬────────────────┐
  │    Layer    │      Mechanism       │     Best for     │      When      │
  ├─────────────┼──────────────────────┼──────────────────┼────────────────┤
  │             │ PostToolUse hook     │ Read-path        │ v2, Claude     │
  │ Tool-output │ (updatedToolOutput)  │ compression /    │ Code           │
  │             │                      │ skeletons        │                │
  ├─────────────┼──────────────────────┼──────────────────┼────────────────┤
  │             │                      │ Same, for        │                │
  │ Tool-call   │ agent-agnostic shim  │ non-Claude       │ later          │
  │             │                      │ agents           │                │
  ├─────────────┼──────────────────────┼──────────────────┼────────────────┤
  │             │                      │ Uniform          │                │
  │ API-request │ ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL   │ steering,        │ v3+,           │
  │             │ proxy                │ observability,   │ agent-agnostic │
  │             │                      │ gating           │                │
  └─────────────┴──────────────────────┴──────────────────┴────────────────┘

  Compression → hook. Steering/observability/gating → proxy. Never cert-MITM.
  That fully absorbs your idea, at the right layer.

  ---
  Now — I have to griller-flag something: we've spent three turns mapping the 
  interception layer (all v2/v3), and Q9 is still unanswered. The interception
  space is now fully resolved above. But the thing you actually asked me for — a
  comprehensive execution plan — needs the v1 core nailed and a milestone
  sequence, and we're circling the sexy part while the foundation and the
  endgame are still open. Let me close the loop tightly.

  Back to Question 9 (still open), which I'll make easy: for the v2 envelope, do
  you accept PageRank-ranked + effect-boosted + budget-packed (borrow Aider's
  ranking wholesale, BFS only gathers candidates)? My rec is yes — it's proven
  and it's the one place your effect-boost differentiates. A one-word confirm
  moves us on.

  Then only two branches remain before I can write the plan:
  - (Q10) The v1 UX contract: the health-score model + the tamagotchi + how
  findings are ranked/severity'd/suppressed (the baseline mechanism). This is
  what makes v1 usable.
  - (Q11) Sequencing & the "walking skeleton": the smallest end-to-end slice
  that proves the thesis, then the milestone order.

  Confirm Q9 and I'll drive Q10.

✻ Churned for 1m 4s

❯ ok for q9: no. i think aiders implementation lacks nuance (ie the whitespace  
  interception components). in terms of token compression it isn't sufficient,  
  and i think as we expand our graph out, we can actually build a better model  
  to the ai than aider can, since aider lacks a lot of the effect analysis,     
  etc. further, they use page rank as opposed to our static analysis effect     
  graph. you've strayed away from the main implementation premise in exchange   
  for the interception/worktree discussion. for q10. we don't need tamagotchi,  
  but healthscore can easily be approximated, severity is necessary.            

⏺ You're right on both counts — including that I drifted. Let me own that: the
  last three turns optimized the delivery plumbing (hooks/proxy/worktree) while
  the actual product — the static effect graph — is the thing that has to be
  world-class, and I let it sit. Re-centering there now, and I think your
  rejection of Q9 is correct for a concrete reason, not just taste.

  Why PageRank is the wrong ranking signal for us specifically: PageRank
  measures topological centrality — "how globally referenced is this node."
  That's a generic-repo-map signal, and it's exactly why Aider caps out: for a
  specific edit, global centrality is the wrong question. What matters is effect
  and contract relevance to the task, which is precisely the information
  PageRank throws away and we uniquely have. So don't borrow their scorer. Keep
  only the machinery that's just good engineering (rank candidates → greedily
  pack under a token budget) and replace the scoring function with an 
  effect-graph-derived one. Concretely, rank a candidate node against edit
  target T by:

  1. Effect-signature relevance — is this node on an effect path T participates
  in? If T does (or should do) Net, the sanctioned core.http channel is
  maximally relevant regardless of its reference count. If T is {Pure}, network
  nodes score ~0 even if globally central. This is the signal PageRank cannot 
  express.
  2. Type-contract adjacency — does it produce a type T consumes, or consume a
  type T produces? Real data-flow contracts, not reference popularity.
  3. Convention exemplars — the dominant-pattern node for "how this codebase
  does the thing T is attempting" (feeds the slop-prevention steering).
  4. Call/containment distance — kept, but as one term, not the whole score.

  And on your compression point: our skeleton is a (type signature + effect 
  signature + docstring) contract, which is strictly denser and more
  semantically complete than Aider's signature-only line — plus the
  deterministic whitespace/comment strip on top. So we compress further (fewer
  tokens) and smarter (the model learns the effect contract, not just the
  shape). That's the "better model than Aider" thesis, made concrete. Q9 locked:
  effect-typed relevance scorer + budgeted packing; PageRank rejected.

  ---
  Question 10 — Severity model + health score (no tamagotchi).

  Tamagotchi dropped. Now, the useful realization: severity isn't a fourth thing
  to invent — it falls straight out of the detector taxonomy we already built.
  Severity = confidence × impact, and confidence is intrinsic to which detector 
  fired:

  - Blocking — deterministic + high-impact: infra-bypass of a confirmed
  sanctioned channel, newly-introduced circular import, effect-creep on a
  declared-pure function.
  - Warning — deterministic but judgment-dependent: complexity spike, dead
  island, Tier-1 exact duplicate.
  - Advisory/nit — fuzzy/LLM-scored: Tier-3 semantic-redundancy candidate,
  naming-convention deviation.

  This maps perfectly onto the earlier rule that fuzzy detectors never block — a
  Tier-3 finding is structurally incapable of being "Blocking" because its
  detector is low-confidence. Severity and the block/advise decision become the
  same axis. Clean.

  For the health score (approximation, agreed): I recommend a severity-weighted 
  slop-density normalized by code size, surfaced two ways:
  - Audit mode → absolute repo score 0–100 (your "slop debt").
  - Check mode (the headline) → the delta: "this change moved health 82 → 79,
  introduced 3 warnings." Since we're diff-primary, the delta is the motivating
  number, not the absolute.

  Plus the two adoption mechanisms every linter needs, riding on the baseline we
  already defined: a baseline file (grandfather existing findings) and inline 
  suppression (# slop: allow infra-bypass — <reason>, reason required).

  Do you accept: severity = confidence×impact collapsed onto the detector 
  taxonomy (fuzzy⇒can't-block), health = severity-weighted density with 
  diff-delta as the headline, baseline + reasoned inline suppression? Or do you
  want a different health formulation (e.g., letter grades, per-category
  subscores)?

  Once you confirm, only Q11 (sequencing / walking skeleton → the execution 
  plan) remains.

✻ Crunched for 1m 7s

❯ yes agreed.                                                                   

⏺ All ten branches locked. Final one.

  Question 11 — The walking skeleton and milestone order.

  The thesis to prove is narrow: "codebase-relative effect analysis catches AI 
  slop a generic linter can't." So the walking skeleton should be the thinnest 
  vertical thread that exercises every architectural layer once — not the
  broadest first slice. My recommendation:

  Walking skeleton (M1): Parse a Python repo → resolve via SCIP ingest → build
  the graph → infer exactly one effect (Net) from a ~10-line seed table → detect
  exactly one finding (infra-bypass: raw Net when a sanctioned channel exists)
  → emit it diff-mode in the CLI with a severity. That single thread forces
  every layer to exist: parser, resolution adapter, graph store, effect
  inference, policy/baseline, diff-mode, severity, output. If it fires correctly
  on a real slopped repo and doesn't fire on clean code, the thesis is proven
  and the rest is breadth or depth.

  Then the order — and the one real sequencing decision in it: fully finish and
  dogfood v1 (detection, CLI-only) before building any of the v2 harness.
  Sequence:

  - M0 — Spike: prove scip-python ingest + graph + parse on a toy repo. Mostly
  throwaway.
  - M1 — Walking skeleton: the single Net/infra-bypass thread above.
  - M2 — v1 (shippable): full effect lattice (~8–10) + seed table for top libs;
  full deterministic detector set (effect-creep, purity-lies, layer violations,
  Tier-1/2 dup, circular imports, complexity, dead islands, over-commenting);
  health score + baseline + suppression.
  - M3 — v1.1: Tier-3 effect-bucketed redundancy + LLM advisory +
  naming-convention. Still CLI.
  - M4 — v2 harness: effect-typed envelope scorer + budgeted packing, MCP
  additive tools, PostToolUse read-remap, additionalContext steering.
  - M5 — v3 gate: validation gate + worktree fix-loop + ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL proxy
  for agent-agnostic steering/observability.
  - Parked non-goals: VS Code, Claude skill, other languages (= more seed tables
  + SCIP indexers), own coding agent.

  The reason M2/M3 (finish detection) must precede M4 (harness): the harness's 
  entire value — compression and prevention-steering — is unprovable until the 
  graph is trustworthy. If you build the envelope on an effect graph that's
  still wrong 30% of the time, you'll be tuning ranking against garbage. Prove
  the graph on the CLI (where findings are cheap to eyeball) first.

  Do you accept the Net/infra-bypass walking skeleton, and the 
  finish-v1-detection-before-building-the-harness ordering? Or would you rather
  thread the harness in earlier (e.g., prove compression on a partial graph in
  parallel)?

  And once you confirm this last one: I'll write the whole thing up as a
  comprehensive EXECUTION_PLAN.md in the repo (locked decisions + architecture +
  milestones + risks). Do you want it as that repo file, or as a shareable
  artifact?

✻ Cogitated for 43s

❯ i agree. we can use @github/vigil or @github/stress-analysis or geoguessrbot  
  as host repos to audit. vigil is an expansive soc daemon (lots of vibe        
  coding, mcp implementations etc), geoguessr is more oriented around ml        
  implementations, stress analaysis is ux + health analysis. all used ai in dev 
  processes.                                                                    

⏺ All eleven branches locked, and now we have a dogfooding corpus — that's the
  last missing piece. vigil (MCP-heavy SOC daemon), stress-analysis (UX/health),
  and geoguessrbot (ML) give you three different slop profiles, all
  AI-developed, which is exactly what you want to avoid overfitting the
  detectors to one style. I'll bake them into the plan as the M1/M2 validation
  targets.

  The interview's done. Writing it up now.

⏺ Write(EXECUTION_PLAN.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 188 lines to EXECUTION_PLAN.md
      2 # `slop` — Execution Plan
      3 > A codebase-relative, effect-graph-driven analyzer that detects 
        AI slop, steers agents away from it, and compresses the context t
      4 hose agents need — Python-first, Rust-built.
      5 This document is the synthesis of `idea.md` and `gemini-idea.md` 
        after a full design interview. It records the locked decisions, t
      6 he architecture, the milestone sequence, and the risks.
      7 ---
      8 
      9 ## 1. Thesis & North Star
     … +330 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Done. EXECUTION_PLAN.md is in the repo — the full synthesis of both docs plus
  everything the interview resolved.

  What it captures:
  - 12 locked decisions as a decision log (the "why" for each, so future-you
  doesn't relitigate them).
  - The thesis stated sharply: codebase-relative effect analysis, with
  effect-inference-as-guardrail flagged as the actual novelty (compression and
  graphs are borrowed from Aider/SCIP/RepoGraph — the effect layer is where you
  win).
  - Architecture: the 4-layer stack, the corrected cyclic multi-edge graph (not
  Gemini's mislabeled "DAG"), the coarse effect lattice, and the
  detector→severity taxonomy where fuzzy detectors are structurally incapable of
  blocking.
  - 6 milestones M0→M5 with exit criteria, the Net/infra-bypass walking
  skeleton, and the hard ordering constraint (finish detection before the
  harness).
  - Your dogfood corpus (vigil/stress-analysis/geoguessrbot) mapped to what each
  stresses.
  - Risk table with when to validate each, and the prior-art positioning +
  references.

  The one thing worth flagging before you start building: the whole plan rests
  on M0 proving scip-python ingest is good enough (D5). That's the load-bearing
  assumption — if SCIP resolution is too lossy on real Python, the effect graph
  inherits the gaps and every downstream check weakens. So M0 isn't a throwaway
  spike; it's a go/no-go on the resolution strategy. If it fails, the fork is:
  contribute to ty sooner, or accept a bundled Python/Node resolver earlier than
  planned.

  Want me to kick off M0 now — scaffold the Rust workspace, wire scip-python
  ingest, and prove resolution on one of the three repos (I'd start with
  stress-analysis as the smallest/least MCP-tangled)? Or leave it here as a plan
  to review first?

✻ Baked for 1m 48s